Learning Outcomes
The main objective of this course is to provide an opportunity for the students to have hands-on experience with,

Configuring and interconnecting LANS using networking devices/technologies (routers, switches, hubs, Internet of Things (IoT)),
Networking protocols (DHCP, DNS, RIP, OSPF, ICMP, TCP, UDP, Wireless LAN, VLAN protocols, SIP, SSL, MPLS, 6LoWPAN,  IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks, CoAP, MQTT, IPv6 over the TSCH mode),
Foundations of modern networking (SDN, NFV with openflow, opendaylight, openstack),
Networking tools (tcpdump, netstat, ping, traceroute, mininet),
and developing network applications (Client/Server, P2P) using Socket interface and IoT applications using Raspberry Pi and/or SensorTag  for data collection and dissemination from sensors using different standards - CoAP Client/Server, MQTT Client/Broker, REST/HTTP)
Additionally, the course covers the following topics in greater technical depth than a basic networking course:
VLAN, Wireless LAN (802.11b/g/n), fundamentals of Cryptography and network/IoT Security protocols (SSL, PGP, IPSec-VPN-ESP, TLS/DTLS transport for securing IoT data, Securing IoT data with JSON Object Signing and Encryption (JOSE), CBOR (Concise Binary Object Representation),  COSE (CBOR Object Signing and Encryption, etc),  Higher level protocols (HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, IMAP, DNS, VoIP with SIP and H.323 protocol suites) and Modern Networking Technologies (Software Defined Networks (SDN) with Openflow Switches and Opendaylight and Network Function Virtualisation (NFV) with Openstack.

Module Theme: "Build, Configure and Observe the Protocols in Action, Design protocols and algorithms for Modern networks and Develop Applications with the Protocols".

 

Prerequisites
Prerequisites: EE3204 - Computer Communication Networks I  or  EE4204 - Computer Communication Networks II or CS2105 Introduction to Computer Networks 

If you are an exchange student, you must have basic knowledge of computer networks like Local Area Networks, Ethernet, Wireless Networks, IP addressing, basic principles of IP routing (RIP/OSPF), ICMP, ARP, DHCP, TCP (Basics and Congestion Control) and UDP.

Modular Credits: 4.0 MC

Teaching Modes
Weekly Lectures followed by Laboratory sessions are planned for this course.

Lectures: (Weekly) Lectures are designed to impart necessary theoretical knowledge required to do the lab experiments.

2020-21 Sem1 - All lectures will be delivered online over ZOOM. [Join Lecture @ https://bit.ly/CS3103lect]. We will record the zoom sessions. However, as the recording is done in Instructor's laptop, the quality may not be very good. Your are recommended to attend all Lectures as the sessions usually go beyond the syllabus and will have lots of discussions on student initiated topics, which are usually on latest developments in the field. 

"We strongly emphasize on learning the concepts, acquire skills and understand the Industry practice in the filed than Marks/Grades".

Labs: (Weekly) Laboratory sessions with periodic briefing spread out throughout the course. Students will be given a quiz to assess their knowledge on the topic and preparedness before they start each experiment.

2020-21 Sem1 - We have ported all the lab exercises to simulator environment. All the lab exercise will be conducted online. Some labs which cannot be done using simulator are changed to assignments with same learning objectives. No physical lab sessions. However, for IoT labs students can collect the IoT equipments from lab/tech services (contact: Mdm. Chew Eng) during the week of the lab and do the experiment at home.

There is  NO webcast or podcast for this course. For make-up lectures (if any), we may arrange for webcast.

Solutions/Answers for the Quiz questions will NOT be published/given. You should find the answers by doing the experiment and/or discussing with the tutors after receiving the graded quiz papers. You are also encouraged to use the luminus-forum to discuss the answers with your classmates.

Course Tools. LumiNUS for Contents, Zoom for Lectures [https://bit.ly/CS3103lect], weask.top (in-class engagement), Discord (out of class engagement),  ShowNtell (sntboard.com, for whiteboard presentations),  SoC Unix Servers, GNS3 (Lab Simulator for Lab Exercises)

Discord [Only for Q&A, Feedback, Comments on Lectures/Labs]:
- Join discord @ https://discord.gg/g9wBKmu.   [GIVE YOUR FULL NAME for US TO IDENTIFY YOU]
- If you have a question about lab sheets, lecture, project handout or a technical issue, there is an excellent chance that other students have the same question. Please read the posts on Discord to see if there has been traffic, and consider posting your questions there.
weask.top [Q&A during lectures]
ShowNtell Whiteboard [Only for discussions with Slides/Images/Audio/Video/Drawings]: sntboard.com 
- Collaborative web whiteboard with recording for NUS students.
GNS3 (Lab Simulator for Lab Exercises. For online lab sessions) 
SoC UNIX Account for Non-SoC Students: 
 - You need a SoC account for the Assignments.
 - Non-SoC students may proceed to the following URL to create/re-enable your SoCaccount https://mysoc.nus.edu.sg/~newacct.